CBD Lemon and Black Sesame Semifreddo

Published: April 2019

Stripped from the web: 03 May 2019

We developed this recipe using a 1,000 milligram (mg) bottle of Lily CBD. If your CBD is particularly strong, you may want to start with just ⅛ tsp. oil, give it a taste, and add more from there. This recipe is part of the Healthyish Guide to Cooking With, Eating, and Truly Enjoying Weed in collaboration with Broccoli. Click here to read more about how to make cannabis delicious.

8 servings

Ingredients:

Nonstick vegetable cooking spray

3 large egg whites

Pinch of kosher salt

⅔ cup sugar, divided

¾ cup chilled heavy cream

1 lemon

2 Tbsp. black sesame seeds

¼ tsp. CBD oil

Extra-virgin olive oil (for drizzling; optional)

Flaky sea salt

Recipe:

Coat a 9x5" loaf pan with nonstick spray (a metal pan will conduct cold more efficiently than tempered glass). Line pan with plastic wrap, leaving a generous overhang on all sides.

Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat egg whites and kosher salt in a medium bowl until frothy, about 1 minute. With the motor running, gradually add ⅓ cup sugar and beat until medium peaks form, about 5 minutes. With the mixer on medium-high speed, gradually add remaining ⅓ cup sugar and continue to beat until stiff, glossy peaks form, 6–8 minutes.

Using clean beaters, whip cream in another medium bowl until soft peaks form. Fold one-third of whipped cream into egg whites. Finely zest lemon over egg white mixture, then squeeze in 2 Tbsp. fresh lemon juice. Add sesame seeds and CBD oil, then gently fold in remaining whipped cream until just combined.

Transfer mixture to prepared pan and place a piece of parchment paper on top, pressing directly onto surface. Freeze until semifreddo is firm, about 6 hours.

Remove parchment paper from surface of semifreddo and, using plastic overhang, gently lift from pan. Invert semifreddo onto a large platter, peel away plastic wrap, and slice 1" thick. Divide among plates and let sit 5 minutes to soften slightly. Drizzle with olive oil (if using) and top with sea salt.

Do Ahead: Semifreddo can be made 3 days ahead. Keep frozen.

By: Andy Baraghani and Chris Morocco