Spring Minestrone

With leeks, fennel, sugar snap peas, and English peas, this soup is perfect for ushering in spring. While it’s definitely a lighter take on the classic minestrone, it gets a lot of depth of flavor from the ground spices, toasted garlic, and white miso.

Ingredients:

1 tsp. coriander seeds

1 tsp. fennel seeds

½ tsp. black peppercorns

¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil

4 garlic cloves, thinly sliced

6 scallions, coarsely chopped

½ serrano chile, thinly sliced (optional)

2 2x1" strips lemon zest

2 large leeks, white and pale green parts only, tough outer layer removed, sliced into ½"-thick rounds

1 fennel, halved lengthwise, bulb and stalks thinly sliced, fronds coarsely chopped

1 15.5-oz. can cannellini beans, rinsed

5 oz. sugar snap peas, thinly sliced on a diagonal

Kosher salt

2 cups baby spinach

1 cup shelled fresh English peas (from about 1 lb. pods) or frozen peas, thawed

1 Tbsp. white miso

A spice mill or mortar and pestle

Recipe:

Coarsely grind coriander seeds, fennel seeds, and peppercorns in spice mill or with mortar and pestle. Cook oil, garlic, and ground spices in a large saucepan over medium heat, stirring often, until garlic is softened but not crisp, about 2 minutes. Add scallions, chile (if using), and lemon zest and cook, stirring occasionally, until scallions are softened and almost completely charred, 5–7 minutes.

Pour 6 cups cold water into saucepan, increase heat to medium-high, and bring to a simmer. Add leeks, fennel bulb and stalks, beans, and sugar snap peas (pan will look crowded but vegetables will shrink as they cook). Reduce heat to medium. Add a large pinch of salt and simmer, stirring occasionally, until leeks, fennel, and sugar snap peas are fork-tender, about 5 minutes. Add spinach, English peas, and miso and cook, stirring, just until spinach is wilted, about 10 seconds; season with salt.

Divide soup among bowls. Top with fennel fronds.

Do Ahead: Soup can be made 1 day ahead. Transfer to an airtight container and chill.

By: Andy Baraghani